Research is a critical part
of the human-centric design process.
UX researchers study end users to collect
and analyze data.
This provides valuable insights and understanding
of the user's behavior, needs and pain points.
Without it, it is impossible to create solutions
that deliver value and meet their expectations.
That's the first benefit of integrating UX
research into the design process.
UX research is vital to deliver solutions
that deliver real value to customers
and are intuitive to use.
The second benefit is: Make informed decisions based on data.
Not opinions, and not assumptions.
User research is not a way to confirm your
beliefs.
It's a way to discover them.
UX research helps you understand user behavior
and make better, more informed decisions.
The third benefit is: Successfully take products to market.
The better you understand your customers,
the better you can create products that meet
their expectations and tailor your strategy
to their specific needs.
The fourth benefit is: Test and validate concepts early.
UX research allows you to test your ideas
early
without waiting for launch day to collect feedback.
It is part of an iterative design process,
as discussed in Chapter 2.
By listening, learning and making continuous
improvements by understanding user needs.
As such, user research should happen any each
stage of the design process.
The earlier the research, the more impact
the findings will have on your final product.
There are different types of user research
for different purposes.
To select suitable types of research methods,
you need to understand what you are trying to achieve.
We can distinguish two types of research:
generative research and evaluative research.
Generative research helps us understand our
users in depth and learn their needs, wants
and challenges. It looks at: "What problem might we solve?"
Evaluative research helps us to test whether
the solutions we've come up with address those
needs, wants, and challenges. How well is
our solution working?
Using both generative and evaluative UX research
during the design process ensures that the
product you're building addresses real needs
and resolves existing pain points.
Generative research is an effective way to
discover new insights.
It‘s also known as exploratory or discovery
research because it usually takes place before
the start of the design process when little
or nothing is known.
You can use it to discover new information
about your users and put forward new ideas.
Generative research methods such as user interviews
are used to gain a deep understanding of people's
motivations, pain points, and behaviors.
This allows you to clearly define the problem
you want to solve for your customers and not
run the risk of building a product that no
one needs or will use.
It is important to have an open mind when
conducting generative research and not to
fixate on what has already been built or on
existing solutions.
This way you can focus your efforts on designing
solutions that solve relevant problems and
add real value to your users.
On the other hand, we have evaluative research.
You use this to assess how well something
is working and to identify areas for improvement.
This type of research can begin once you understand
your user's needs.
There are two types of evaluative research
that you can use:
formative and summative research.
In the early stages of the design process,
formative research is done to iteratively
test existing or new solutions.
You can test and identify problems in the
solutions as you create them, and improve
them based on user feedback.
For example, a well-known evaluative research
method that we discussed earlier
is a usability test.
A summative evaluation helps you understand
how a design is performing in general.
It is usually done at the end of the design
process to test usability
or detect overlooked issues.
For example with a survey.
And it doesn't stop with the launch of a new
product.
For the best user experience, solutions should
be monitored and improved upon
based on customer feedback.
Generative and evaluative research are both
valuable decision-making tools
in the researcher's arsenal.
They should be used in the same way during
the product development process as they both
help you get the evidence you need.
It depends on the knowledge you need and want
to gain, and the resources available to you.
Before you start, it's good practice to map out the entire research project.
A user research plan acts as an overview and
helps to get the project started.
It should be co-created with your
stakeholders.
This ensures that everyone is aligned with
regard to objectives, timelines and expectations.
It is also less likely that conflicts about
user needs
and design decisions will arise in the future.
So, what's in the plan?
First you need to determine what the problem
is that you want to solve.
A problem statement explains what the project
is about and provides background information.
Once you've identified the
problem statement, think about the research goals
What you're doing, why you're doing
it, and what you expect from the UX research process.
Setting clear goals will help you define the
scope of the project
and the questions you need to answer.
After you have defined your problem statement,
make an inventory of what is already present
in your team, company in the market and in
other literature.
What research has already been done on the
intended users or in the relevant industry?
What do we already know?
What still needs to be discovered?
These are the question you want to answer.
Now you have enough information to plan the
investigation for what you don't know.
Choosing the right research methods
will depend on your goals,
the design stage you are in,
resources and timeline.
For example, if you are at the beginning of
the design process, a generative research method
such as user interviews or field research
can help you generate new insights
about the target group.
Or, if you need to evaluate how a design
is performing with users before handover,
you can run usability tests to gain actionable
design insights.
Establishing the research project timeline
is an essential step
in creating a UX research plan.
Estimate how long the research project will
take and when the findings can be expected.
This helps to manage stakeholder expectations
of the process and results.
The next part of a research plan is to create
a guide for your research sessions.
You will use this during user interviews,
field research or in-person sessions.
The guide is there to remind you what questions
to ask and to keep the sessions on track.
Any research plan should include information
about the participants
you need in the research studies.
When selecting participants, make sure they
represent all your target personas.
If you test on people who are not like your
users, the results will not be valid.
The number of participants varies based on
the methods used, so be sure to define how
many people you need to get enough data to
be sure of the results.
To bring a research project to a successful conclusion
a lot of logistics have to be arranged.
Some questions to think about: How do you
recruit participants for your research?
Where will the research take place?
Will it be done in the field, in a lab, remotely
with a moderator, or unmoderated?
Who facilitates the test or conducts the interviews?
What equipment do you need for the research?
Once you've prepared your research study,
it's a good practice to run a pilot test to
make sure it's working as you expect.
Doing research is only part of the process.
After you have conducted the research, you
must present the results.
It is important after all your sessions to
review the final results
discuss this results and decide what to implement.
With your team and other stakeholders.
Everyone benefits from understanding the issues
users are experiencing and helping them make
informed decisions to improve them.
Once you know what you want to research
you can decide which methods you want to use.
UX research includes various methods and techniques.
Each project benefits from multiple research
methods and from combining insights.
To better understand when to use which method,
use this chart.
It has two axes: behavioral versus attitudinal
and qualitative versus quantitative.
On the vertical axis you will find behavioral
versus attitudinal.
The difference between the two is listening
to 'what people say'
versus observing 'what people do'.
Very often these give different insights.
In the lower part you will find methods such
as interviews, focus groups and surveys.
These can provide insight into what people
think about a brand or product
or the mental model of the user.
On the other hand, you'll find behavioral
methods to understand what people are doing
with the product.
Research methods in the top half help you
discover needs that your user has, but usually
doesn't articulate.
By combining methods from both sides, you
bridge the gap between what users say and
how they actually feel.
Another distinction we can make is between
quantitative and qualitative research methods.
Quantitative methods are used to gain insight
into the statistical analysis while qualitative
methods are used to gain a deeper understanding
of the opinions and views of the user.
Quantitative research is used to collect and
analyze data, identify patterns, make predictions,
and generalize findings.
This data is collected indirectly.
For example, quantitative usability testing
collects metrics such as
time on task, error rate, or success rate.
With an app or web analytics tool you can
track your product's performance, see what
people are doing in your product, and identify
issues.
You can use this information to monitor your
product's UX and ensure it improves over time.
One of the advantages of quantitative research
is the ability to conduct large-sample studies
and collect statistically relevant data.
Unlike qualitative feedback, quantitative
research is more objective and representative
of a wider audience.
On the flip side, quantitative research does
not tell you why and how an effect occurs.
For that you need qualitative user research.
This includes research methods such as user
interviews and field studies.
Then you collect qualitative data through
direct observation of participants.
This provides insight into people's motivations,
thoughts and attitudes.
This type of research is key to uncovering
the "why" behind actions.
To develop a deep understanding of the problem
you are investigating.
Qualitative methods are often used during
the research and concept phases, as they answer
questions about why and how things happen.
These are very important questions to ask
when researching and doing concept design.
So which one should you choose?
Qualitative and quantitative are both essential
for conducting effective research and obtaining
actionable insights.
In fact, they reinforce each other and help
to triangulate the research results.
You can be sure of your findings if both qualitative and quantitative approaches yield comparable results.
Use qualitative research to explore ideas
and discover new insights, then use quantitative
research methods to test a hypothesis or final
solution.
Choosing the right research method starts
with knowing what problem you are trying to
solve and what type of data you need to collect.
Understanding where you are in the design
process will help you
choose the right UX research method.
For example, if the team is very early in
the process, it makes sense to do more exploratory work.
Using generative research methods, such as
field studies.
On the other hand, if you need to test a prototype,
evaluative research methods such as usability
testing work best.
Let's have a look at some of the most common
UX research methods to help you decide on
the best solution for your project.
There are several methods available, but in
this lesson we will highlight the most important
techniques you need to know when conducting research.
User interviews are a well-known research method
that allows you to gather information
through conversations with your users.
Unlike focus groups, user interviews are one-on-one
sessions where you learn in-depth what the
participant thinks about a topic.
Which will lead to the discovery of new ideas
and insights.
To get the most out of user interviews, I'll
share some best practices with you.
Create a discussion guide.
Here you list the questions you want to ask,
in a logical conversation order and priority.
If you're short on time during an interview,
you want to make sure you've covered the key points.
But don't be too tied to the script.
If it makes sense during the interview, be
open to deviations.
Prepare more questions than you think you
will have time to ask.
Some participants talk a lot and give very
long answers.
Others need a follow-up question to provide
the same amount of information.
But don't rush the user, let them finish their
thoughts and don't interrupt them.
Below this video you will find information
on how to best create a discussion guide.
To get the most out of your interview session,
it is important to avoid leading, closed or
vague questions.
Leading questions direct the user by proposing
an answer.
For example, a question like "Why do you like
using Instagram so much?"
suggests that the user uses and enjoys the
product.
A better question might be, "Why do you use
Instagram?"
or "What do you think of Instagram?"
Closed questions stop the conversation and
cut surprises.
If you ask closed questions, you may limit
or prompt someone to give a certain answer.
They create “yes” or “no” answers.
For example, if an interviewer asks, "So you
use Instagram every day?"
then you will most likely only get a "yes"
without further explanation.
A better question might be: "Can you tell
me how you use Instagram?"
Asking open-ended questions is critical to
get actionable insights and feedback.
People may share motivations you didn't expect
or mention concerns you didn't know about.
You can use closed questions as an introduction
to open answers.
For example: "Do you have an Instagram account?"
Which is a closed question, followed by:
Why is that? When do you use it?
Or can you tell me about the last time you posted?
Also make sure that you ask one thing at a time.
Instead of “Do you use a social media network,
and if so, which one do you use?”
Try "How often do you use social media?"
then continue with:
"Which one do you use?"
Where user interviews are one-on-one discussions,
a focus group is a qualitative research method
in which a group of people, their beliefs
and opinions are studied.
They are guided by discussions on various
topics.
Focus groups are very suitable for finding
new opportunities in the market or exploring
new concepts.
In a 1-on-1 conversation, an interviewer can
give socially desirable answers, so as not
to criticize the interviewer or the product.
This happens less quickly in a group.
Focus groups are therefore very suitable if
you want your participants
to give unbiased answers.
On the other hand, there may also be more
group dynamics that influence the participants'
responses.
You have to pay close attention to this.
You also have less room to discuss topics
in detail.
It therefore strongly depends on your research
goal which type of interview is most suitable.
It does take some work to steer a discussion
in the right direction.
About five to ten participants are recommended
to keep the sessions focused and organized.
A fundamental role of the user researcher
is to bridge the gap between what users say
and how they actually feel.
Through generative research,
you can discover needs that your user has
but usually doesn't articulate.
Field studies are a great method to uncover
context, unknown motivations or limitations
that affect the user experience.
Field studies are ethnographic research activities
that take place in the user's natural environment.
There is no stronger form of research than
observing users behave as they will when using
your product.
For example, see how an Uber driver uses the
app while picking up customers.
How people use your banking app to pay at
a restaurant.
Or how they use your app to check in and board
a plane.
A field study is super helpful for understanding
the context in which users complete tasks,
learn about their needs, and gather in-depth
user stories.
It helps you understand how the product fits
into their everyday life.
It's great for creating customer journey maps.
Because you see first-hand all the steps your
users are taking, their emotions and motivations.
This research method involves users keeping diaries
explaining their activities, and
highlighting things that stand out to them.
Diary studies provide you with a great way
to see how a user uses a product on a daily
basis and how it fits into their lives.
Diary studies are one of the few ways you
can actually see how users interact with a
product in a real-life scenario.
The feedback you collect gives you real-time
information to help you create a better product
For an effective diary study, you need to
be clear about what participants should do.
What kind of feedback they should provide,
and how they should share it with you.
It is also important to be available to the
participants for any questions.
Keep in mind that most diary studies can take
a while.
But, a longer duration also means that you
have a broader period
and a wider range of situations.
Meaning that you have a better chance of understanding
all the problems.
Because it shows the real, natural behavior
of the user over time.
Things like this often don't come up in a
quick-time-boxed test or interview.
Surveys are a research tool that allows you
to collect data from a group of participants.
Usually quantitative by collecting a large
number of answers.
But you can also use them for qualitative
research by asking people for feedback
with open-ended comments.
Surveys are good because it is easy and inexpensive
to create and send one.
Instead of talking to people one by one.
The downside is that you can't ask follow-up
questions.
As with interviews or focus groups, avoid
leading questions.
This prompts the participant to respond in
a certain way, giving you biased answers.
Card sorting is a research method where users
categorize subject cards in a way that makes
sense to them.
It's a simple concept.
You write topics, pages or features on cards
and then you ask the user to categorize them.
The words or phrases you write on the cards
depend on what you're trying
to learn from your users.
For example, if you want to know if the way
your website is organized is easy to understand,
you can write down the different pages of
your website and ask users to sort them into
categories that make sense to them.
This is an open card sorting session that
generates new ideas and category names.
In contrast, in a closed card sorting, you provide
participants with a predefined set of categories
and ask them to sort the items into the available
categories.
You can perform a card sorting session using
physical index cards or a digital tool.
You need probably around 15 participants
to get good results and spot patterns.
Card sorting is invaluable in figuring out
how to structure something.
An important step towards creating an intuitive
information architecture.
It's also a good way to understand your users'
mental models.
The relationships they create between cards
will teach you which ideas or functions are
most related in the minds of the users.
With usability testing, you ask users to complete
a list of tasks while observing and recording
their interactions.
The purpose is to understand if your design
is intuitive and easy to use, and if there
are any usability issues.
Usability tests are incredibly effective.
They give you plenty of learning opportunities
and insights.
Because you test tangible work instead of
general concepts.
There are several usability testing methods
that you can use.
In a moderated usability test, users perform
tasks while a researcher
observes and takes notes.
This is usually done in an in-house laboratory.
Remote, unmoderated testing with tools like
Usertesting.com is also very popular.
This is usability testing, but without dragging
users into a lab environment.
The main advantage of these tools is that
you can set up the test, find participants
and then run it in the background.
The only disadvantage is that you cannot adjust
the test based on the answers of the participant.
Usability testing steers your work in the
right direction and brings you closer to shipping.
And the great thing is that you don't need
many participants.
In fact, research from the Nielsen Norman
group indicates that only five people are
needed per test.
It shows that those five users can find 85%
of serious problems in an interface.
Adding more users improves the percentage
marginally, but increases the cost significantly.
It is therefore good to opt for an iterative
setup.
The user experience is much more improved
by 3 usability tests with 5 users each in
which you continue to process the improvement
points after each session, than by one sample
study with 15 users.
A/B testing is testing between two versions
of an interface.
Half of the people are using version A and
the other half are using version B.
It's great to show which of two design decisions
will have the most impact.
You measure the effect of use in each group
and determine which version is better based
on a metric.
To measure this, everything except the test
condition must remain the same in each group.
They must be the same size and experience
the test in the same period.
The downside is that you can only vary one
thing at a time.
To make sure that's what causes the difference
between the groups.
For example, if you make various adjustments
such as images, colors or heading styles.
You won't know how much each change affected
the end result.
It is better to test only small pieces of
the user interface.
There are many tools like Google Optimize
that you can use to do your own A/B testing
on a website.
Before you begin, it's good practice to write
down a hypothesis and decide on goals, expectations,
and metrics.
Knowing what your users are looking at when
using your system can tell you a lot about
the usability of your product.
It helps in user interface design and to rank
types of content.
Eye tracking tracks how users' eyes move across
web pages.
This requires specialized technology and is
thus often only used in a UX lab.
There are online alternatives to use, such
as heatmaps.
They don't follow eye movements, but mouse
clicks and hovers on a website.
These create heatmaps that show where users
spend time and attention on a page.
They can be done remotely with automated tools.
These are some of the most well-known research
methods.
There are dozens of other techniques available
for different purposes.
If you would like to delve even further into
this, we have collected a series of interesting
articles and books for you below this video.
This also brings us to the end of this lesson.
Let's briefly review what we've covered in
this lesson.
I started by explaining that user experience
research is a critical part of
the human-centered design process.
User research should take place at every stage
of the design process.
The earlier the investigation, the more impact
the findings will have on your product.
We can distinguish two types of research:
generative research and evaluative research.
Generative research helps us understand what
problem we might solve.
Evaluative research helps us to test how well
our solution works.
Using both generative and evaluative UX research
during the design process ensures that the
product you're building addresses real needs
and resolves existing pain points.
Before you start, it's good practice to map
out the entire research process.
A user research plan acts as an overview and
helps to get the project started.
Once you know what you want to research, you
can decide which research methods to use.
To better understand when to use which method,
I've shown you this chart.
The difference between attitude and behavior
is listening to 'what people say' versus observing
'what people do'.
Quantitative methods are used to gain insight
into the statistical analysis while qualitative
methods are used to gain deeper insight into
the opinions and views of the user.
Finally, we've gone through the most common
UX research methods to help you decide on
the best solution for your project.
To design for people,
you have to understand people.
As I showed in this lesson, user research
plays an important role in this.
But there are also some general patterns of
how people process information,
think and learn.
I'll tell you more about this in the next
chapter on cognitive psychology.